---
layout: post
title: "CoffeeMe 1.0"
excerpt: "What we've learned in the 3 months since launch and upcoming changes"
---

h1. <a href="{{ page.url }}">{{ page.title }}</a>

<p class="subheadline">{{ page.excerpt }}</p>

We created CoffeeMe as a better way to improve your professional network. One of our hypotheses was the most meaningful professional relationships form through in-person meetings, often over coffee.

15,130 choices (yes or maybe later) and 1,069 introductions later, we're re-evaluating that hypothesis.

We've been surprised by 2 fundamental things:

<ol>
  <li>People say yes 40% of the time &mdash; That's much higher than we anticipated. In the beginning, our biggest worry was whether anyone would match. Currently there's almost too many matches.</li>
  <li>People say yes but don't necessarily want to meet &mdash; People want to connect with each other but don't necessarily have the time to meet within the next few weeks. They want to open channel of communication in case the relationship can be mutually beneficial later.</li>
</ol>

Put more simply, people really want to connect but not necessarily now or in-person. I think we take people that say yes, too quickly into a coffee shop to meet. It works for introductions from an existing connection because they've vetted that person and   it doesn't happen that often. On CoffeeMe, it happens all the time.

There should be a layer between matching on the site and meeting in-person. That layer should provide context for the relationship. How can we help each other? Can we help right now or should we stay in touch? etc.

In the next few weeks we'll be focusing on that context layer. I'll be reaching out to a few of you to share what we're thinking and get your feedback. If you'd like to be part of that group, let me know!

{% include share.html %}
