---
layout: post
title: "Professionally, Women Are Less Willing to Meet Men"
---

h1. <a href="{{ page.url }}">{{ page.title }}</a>

Friends have jokingly asked us if CoffeeMe was really <a href="http://gotinder.com">Tinder</a> with Linkedin profiles instead of Facebook photos. It isn't but we thought it'd be interesting to look at our data to see if gender played a role in whether people decided whether to meet each other.

First let's look at the gender distribution of our members.

[gender distribution of members]

Sadly but maybe unsurprisingly only 28.77% of our member's are women.  I wonder what the actual distribution is for the startup community. Our percentage feels anecdotally correct.

[profession by gender]

Women are typically in business (marketing, program management, etc.) and design roles. Men (again sadly but maybe unsurprisingly) are typically engineers and founders. They're actually more technical than this chart suggests, because we forced everyone into one of the groups, there were quite a few technical founders placed in the founders group that would otherwise have been in the engineering group.

[gender interactions]

Read this as the gender on the left choosing whether to meet the gender at the top. For example, the top left cell indicates that men say yes to meeting each other 44% of the time.

h3. Men don't say yes to women at a significantly higher rate

If men were really using CoffeeMe to meet women, you'd expect the M to F percentage (47.38%) to be significantly higher than the M to M percentage (44.05%). This surprised me. Even though CoffeeMe is strictly for professional networking, when you show someone a person's picture and ask if they want to meet them, physical attraction plays some role.

h3. Women say no to men at a significantly higher rate

Of the 4 possible pairings (MF, MM, FF, FM) only the female to male percentage was significantly lower at 37%. What's going on? I'm a guy so rather than speculate wildly, I shared this data with a few female members to see what they thought. 

<i>Safety</i> &mdash; Despite being a strictly professionally, invite-only product where people meet in public places, safety was a concern. Meeting someone who was male, who they didn't know, on the internet was reason to pause. One of the women said that despite matching with both men and women, they've only actually met with the women.

<i>Motivated by Dating</i> &mdash; Some women were skeptical of the true motivations behind some of the men wanting to meet them. What's interesting, as we we discussed previously, men don't seem to respond positively to women at a significantly higher rate than they do to other men. Do women think men have ulterior motives (can't blame them) but in this case they don't? 

<i>Differences in Profession</i> &mdash; As we talked about earlier, women are more likely to be in business and design roles, men are more likely to be technical. In a previous blog post we looked at the % yes rates between professions and found that typically business and designers aren't as interested in meeting engineers. They do like meeting founders who tend to be male also. It's not clear if that tells the whole story but it's possible that it's less about the gender and more about the profession each gender gravitates towards.

I'm certainly not saying these are the only reasons or that any of these are even right but I do think the data raises an interesting question. I'd love to hear more about people think! Women, do you find yourself more skeptical of meeting guys, even for professional purposes? If so, why?

{% include share.html %}
